Adding Standalone Debian package install documentation (#45)
ROCm/device-metrics-exporter: docs/installation/deb-package.md

    sudo usermod -a -G render,video $LOGNAME 
    ```

### Step 2: Install AMDGPU Driver

```{note}
For the most up-to-date information on installing dkms drivers please see the [ROCm Install Quick Start](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/install/quick-start.html) page. The below instructions are the most current instructions as of ROCm 6.2.4.
```

1. Download the driver from the Radeon repository ([repo.radeon.com]( https://repo.radeon.com/amdgpu-install)) for your operating system. For example if you want to get the latest ROCm 6.3.4 drivers for Ubuntu 22.04 you would run the following command:

    ```bash
    wget https://repo.radeon.com/amdgpu-install/6.3.4/ubuntu/jammy/amdgpu-install_6.3.60304-1_all.deb
    ```

    Please note that the above url will be different depending on what version of the drivers you will be installing and type of Operating System you are using.

2. Install the driver:

    ```bash
    sudo apt install ./amdgpu-install_6.3.60304-1_all.deb
    sudo apt update 
    amdgpu-install --usecase=dkms 
    ```

3. Load the driver module:

    ```bash
    sudo modprobe amdgpu
    ```

### Step 3: Install the Metrics Exporter

> 1.  To install the Device Metrics Exporter you will first need to build the Debian package from source. To do so please refer to the [Device Metrics Exporter Developer Guide here](https://instinct.docs.amd.com/projects/device-metrics-exporter/en/latest/developerguide)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To install the Device Metrics Exporter you will first need to build the Debian package from source. To do so please refer to the [Device Metrics Exporter Developer Guide here](https://instinct.docs.amd.com/projects/device-metrics-exporter/en/latest/developerguide)
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

1. Download the driver from the Radeon repository ([repo.radeon.com]( https://repo.radeon.com/amdgpu-install)) for your operating system. For example if you want to get the latest ROCm 6.3.4 drivers for Ubuntu 22.04 you would run the following command:

    ```bash
    wget https://repo.radeon.com/amdgpu-install/6.3.4/ubuntu/jammy/amdgpu-install_6.3.60304-1_all.deb
    ```

    Please note that the above url will be different depending on what version of the drivers you will be installing and type of Operating System you are using.

2. Install the driver:

    ```bash
    sudo apt install ./amdgpu-install_6.3.60304-1_all.deb
    sudo apt update 
    amdgpu-install --usecase=dkms 
    ```

3. Load the driver module:

    ```bash
    sudo modprobe amdgpu
    ```

### Step 3: Install the Metrics Exporter

1. Download the Metrics Exporter standalone Debian pacakge from [repo.radeon.com](https://repo.radeon.com/amdgpu-exporter):

    ```bash

>     wget https://repo.radeon.com/amdgpu-exporter/x.x.x/ubuntu/jammy/amdgpu-exporter_0.1_amd64.deb

Reviewer: Waiting on confirmation of the amdgpu-exporter deb package URL.

Reviewer 2: As discussed lets remove this for now. and point to the build instruction. Rest looks good to go.

> 1. Download the Metrics Exporter standalone Debian pacakge from [repo.radeon.com](https://repo.radeon.com/amdgpu-exporter):
> 
>     ```bash
>     wget https://repo.radeon.com/amdgpu-exporter/x.x.x/ubuntu/jammy/amdgpu-exporter_0.1_amd64.deb

Reviewer: Updated this to state that user needs to build from source.

```suggestion
1.  To install the Device Metrics Exporter you will first need to build the Debian package from source. To do so please refer to the [Device Metrics Exporter Developer Guide here](https://instinct.docs.amd.com/projects/device-metrics-exporter/en/latest/developerguide)
```

    ```

> 2. Install the deb package:
> 
>     ```bash
>     sudo dpkg -i amdgpu-exporter_*.deb
>     ```

Reviewer: Need to update this step as well.

```suggestion
2. Install the deb package that you just built:

    ```bash
   sudo dpkg -i bin/amdgpu*.deb
    ```
```

# Standalone Debian Package Install

## System Requirements

> - **Operating System**: Ubuntu 22.04 LTS

Reviewer 2: we support "24.04" as well

Reviewer: Added 24.04 as well.

Author: added. Thanks

- **ROCm Version**: 6.3.x (specific to each .deb pkg)
 
 Each Debian package release of the Standalone Metrics Exporter is dependent on a specific version of the ROCm amdgpu driver. Please see table below for more information:

| Metrics Exporter Debian Version | ROCm Version | AMDGPU Driver Version |
|---------------------------------|--------------|-----------------------|
| amdgpu-exporter-v1.2.0-13-1.2.0 | ROCm 6.3.x   | 6.10.5                |

## Installation

Before installing the AMD GPU Metrics Exporter, you need to install the following:

- **AMDGPU DKMS Driver**: Installed on the system - (see instructions below)

> - **RDC (ROCm Data Center Tool)**: Already installed and running - (see instructions below)

Reviewer 2: no need

Reviewer: Removed references to RDC

```

1. Download the driver from the Radeon repository ([repo.radeon.com]( https://repo.radeon.com/amdgpu-install)) for your operating system. For example if you want to get the latest ROCm 6.3.4 drivers for Ubuntu 22.04 you would run the following command:

    ```bash
    wget https://repo.radeon.com/amdgpu-install/6.3.4/ubuntu/jammy/amdgpu-install_6.3.60304-1_all.deb
    ```

    ```{info}
    Please note that the above url will be different depending on what the latest version of the drivers are and your Operating System
    ```

2. Install the driver:

    ```bash
    sudo apt install ./amdgpu-install_6.3.60304-1_all.deb
    sudo apt update 
    amdgpu-install --usecase=dkms 
    ```

3. Load the driver module:

    ```bash
    sudo modprobe amdgpu
    ```

### Step 3: Install RDC (ROCm Data Center Tool)

1. Install RDC package:

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get install rdc
    ```

2. Update your PATH environment variable:

    ```bash
    echo 'export PATH=$PATH:/opt/rocm-6.2.0/bin' >> ~/.bashrc
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```

3. Start the RDC service:

    ```bash
    sudo systemctl start rdc.service

>     ```

Reviewer 2: no need

Reviewer: All references to RDC have been removed. Thanks

### Step 4: Install Metrics Exporter

1. Once you have the .deb package (obtained via AMD representative):

    ```bash

>     sudo dpkg -i amdgpu-exporter_0.1_amd64.deb

Reviewer 2: change amdgpu-exporter_0.1_amd64.deb to "amdgpu-exporter_*.deb"

Reviewer: Fixed

    ```

4. Update the `ExecStart` line to read in the config.json file:

    ```plaintext
    ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/amd-metrics-exporter -amd-metrics-config /etc/metrics/config.json
    ```

5. Reload systemd:

    ```bash
    sudo systemctl daemon-reload
    ```

### Custom Port Configuration - Change GPU Agent Port

1. Edit the GPU Agent service file:

    ```bash
    sudo vi /lib/systemd/system/gpuagent.service
    ```

2. Update `ExecStart` with desired port:

    ```plaintext
    ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/gpuagent -p <port_number>
    ```

### Change Metrics Exporter Port

1. Edit the configuration file:

    ```bash
    sudo vi /etc/metrics/config.json
    ```

2. Update `ServerPort` to your desired port.

### Removing Metrics Exporter and other components

To remove this application, follow these commands in reverse order:

1. Uninstall the Metrics Exporter:
    - Ensure the .deb package is removed:

        ```bash
        sudo dpkg -r amdgpu-exporter
        sudo apt-get purge amdgpu-exporter
        
        ```

2. Uninstall RDC:

    - Ensure the .deb package is removed:

        ```bash
       sudo dpkg -r rdc 
        sudo apt-get purge rdc

>         ```

Reviewer 2: not applicable

Reviewer: All references to RDC have been removed. Thanks
